The Project Gutenberg eBook of Art and Pleasure: "Painting with
Needles", by Anonymous

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you
will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before
using this eBook.

Title: Art and Pleasure: "Painting with Needles"
       New Uses of Dexter Cotton Warp

Author: Anonymous

Release Date: July 19, 2021 [eBook #65873]

Language: English

Produced by: Stephen Hutcheson and the Online Distributed Proofreading
             Team at https://www.pgdp.net 

*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK ART AND PLEASURE: "PAINTING
WITH NEEDLES" ***





                                                                 Book 54




                             ART & PLEASURE
                       “_Painting with Needles_”
                     NEW USES OF DEXTER COTTON WARP


                        _Virginia Snow Studios_
                           ELGIN, ILL.—U.S.A.

                          TEN CENTS IN U.S.A.
                           PRINTED IN U.S.A.

                                                      No. 6523: —Page 10—




                           _Art and Pleasure_
                        “Painting With Needles”


To the Romans who cradled culture, all forms of created beauty
constituted Art. Fine sewing of all kinds, they called “Painting with
Needles”.

Today, centuries later, we find millions of American women, those of
wealth and those of more modest means alike, also painting with needles.
They are expressing the beautiful in colorful yarns, and perpetuating
culture with their crocheted creations made for the comfort and pleasure
of gracious living.

And it is more than art! Women have learned and are learning how to
dress better for less and how to adorn their homes with practical, yet
lovely, articles of usefulness.

Crocheting with Dexter Cotton Warp is, in a sense, the fair flower of an
art that our great-grandmas practiced not alone for pleasure, but with
an eye to the practical—the art of the weaving of rugs. Their yarns were
not so fine and lovely as of today, nor so amazingly easy to work with.
But then, as now, women found pride and delight in the home-arts, and
now crocheting, the art of the hour, flaunts many of the exquisite
designs that have survived those early rugs.

You who love to crochet seek of course the most beautiful and authentic
designs, and finest materials to work with. This Book is for you. In it
you will find fascinating variety, and you will meet as from the pages
of history patterns originally conceived by Colonial grandames, or
Spanish senoras, or Bavarian peasants—designs from all over the world.
You will find the instructions simple and easy to follow. Choose, and
know the thrill of superior crocheting. Save money. And feel free,
please, to make us your crocheting headquarters. We shall always be glad
to serve you.

                            _Virginia Snow_
                            Elgin, Illinois

    [Illustration: DEXTER COTTON WARP, ART. 380]

A Century of Service Weaves Beauty and Long Life Into Your Crocheting!

For one hundred and twenty years women of America have used Dexter
Cottons.

A hundred and twenty years ago N.G.B. Dexter dreamed of working magic
with cotton, and he founded his mills in rugged New England to make that
dream come true. His were the first mills in America. Crude the first
cotton that came from them, of course, and yet the Dexter stamp of
quality was the guarantee of American women that the yarns they wove and
spun with, American-made, could not be surpassed by any product of the
mills across the seas.

Today American women have that same faith and reliance in the cottons
that bear the name of Dexter. Today as never before, there is
fulfillment of his early dream. For women are working magic with cotton,
they are creating beautiful things with soft lustrous yarns of delicious
colors, sensuously lustrous, yet strong and enduring. And today, as
never before, the name of Dexter on yarns carries assurance of
unsurpassed quality, of almost a century and a quarter of continued
integrity.

Choose Dexter cottons. They will weave into your crocheting unparalleled
beauty, and retain that beauty far longer than ordinary yarns can
promise....


NO. 6532—UTILITY BAG

    [Illustration: uncaptioned]

This practical utility bag knows no age limit—it “sings with youth” yet
by its very usefulness can be dignifiedly subdued. You can make it in
any combination of colors getting rare effects with its diagonal
stripes. And you will possess an ideal utility bag for shopping, or with
sports clothes, or as a knitting bag.

                        Instructions on page 11


NO. 6531—LAUNDRY BAG

    [Illustration: uncaptioned]

Even the laundry bag in the modern home must be expressive of beauty.
Here is one that you will find easy to fashion; sturdy and enduring, it
will remain always a happy spot of color through countless washings and
much abuse.

                        Instructions on page 12


NO. 6534—SHOPPING BAG

    [Illustration: uncaptioned]

Here, too, is a shopping or knitting bag that can be worked up in
various combinations of colors, and you will find countless times when
it will be “Just the bag I need”—a practical bag you will prize.

                        Instructions on page 12


NO. 6536—BELT

    [Illustration: uncaptioned]

Strongly Spanish is this striking belt, with fringe trimming—just the
thing to smartly “set off” the simple sports dress, and give it tone.

                        Instructions on page 11


NO. 6537—ZIPPER PURSE

    [Illustration: uncaptioned]

Crochet this zipper purse in colors to match the belt above and it, too,
will be an unusual style appeal, amazingly fetching.

                        Instructions on page 11


NO. 6528—LACE TABLE CLOTH

    [Illustration: uncaptioned]

Also ultra smart for distinctive service. Crocheting at its loveliest
contributed to this distinctive table cloth. It completely covers the
table and lends itself in generous measure to that indefinable
something—that for want of a better word—designers call charm.

                         Instructions on page 9


NO. 6530—TUMBLER MUFFS

    [Illustration: uncaptioned]

The social-set term for this Coaster service is “Tumbler Muffs”. Make
them six to a set for your own use, or for appreciated gifts. These
tumbler muffs contribute true smartness to serving, and at the same time
have a utilitarian value because they protect the hand as it holds the
iced drink. It’s fun to make them!

                         Instructions on page 9


NO. 6526—LUNCHEON SET

    [Illustration: uncaptioned]

This 5-piece luncheon set has the charm of simplicity and at the same
time is almost vocal with spirited modernity. Crochet them in colors for
harmony, and you have a table appointment your family and guests will
delight in.

                        Instructions on page 10


NO. 6533—BRIDGE SET

    [Illustration: uncaptioned]

Not only richly beautiful is this 4-piece Bridge Set as a joyous and
different adjunct for smart entertaining at cards, but it equally is
delightful for those intimate, informal luncheons in summer time. Not at
all difficult to crochet, yet costly if bought made up.

                        Instructions on page 10


NO. 6540—CHAIR SET

    [Illustration: uncaptioned]

Something deep-running in the lives of Americans makes anything nautical
always popular, inevitably a theme of every branch of art, from
priceless paintings to printed fabrics. This dainty Sailboat Chair Set
in crochet you will want to give a prominent place in your living room.

                        Instructions on page 15


NO. 6545—FRILLED MAT

    [Illustration: uncaptioned]

This exquisite frilled table mat is an invaluable accessory—a touch of
charm in any setting. It is touches like this that bespeak the genteel
taste of hostess and house-wife, that “rare something” so envied of
womenfolk.

                        Instructions on page 13


NO. 6541—DAVENPORT SET

    [Illustration: uncaptioned]

Many housewives choose this Butterfly Davenport Set to bring the spirit
of summer into their homes in cold winter months. But good anytime. And
easy to make.

                        Instructions on page 13


NO. 6544—FLOWER BASKET

Picture this delightful flower basket as a table decoration in living or
dining room, or your own boudoir, filled with sweet peas, sweetheart
rosebuds, or babies breath or freesia. These flower baskets are easily
made, too, for long remembered gifts.

                        Instructions on page 15


NO. 6543—LID COVER

    [Illustration: uncaptioned]

A companion piece to Bath Rug 6542 is this lid cover in harmonizing
colors. These two pieces alone can transform the bath with a note of
cheery beauty.

                        Instructions on page 15


NO. 6542—BATHROOM RUG

    [Illustration: uncaptioned]

“Two shades of one color, combined with cream in a simple shell stitch”
is the stylist’s suggestion for this bathroom rug, or mat. But it will
lend itself to other colors, and go far toward brightening the bathroom,
as well as to serve well, as a utility.

                        Instructions on page 15


NO. 6524—BEDSPREAD

    [Illustration: uncaptioned]

Out of the past of lavender and old lace—of crinoline and stately
waltz—of rugged pioneering—gracious living and the love of liberty—out
of colonial commingling of realism and glamor come these two beautiful
examples of crochet work—the star patterned bedspread and companion rug.
Make them—they will always seem like friends your forebears loved.

                        Instructions on page 12


NO. 6538—RUG

Any bedroom, solarium or sun porch will be made animate with the
sparkling modernity of this diamond pattern rug, worked in lively colors
or even the more chaste, sedate ones. You will delight in achieving this
pattern, and glory in its finished beauty.

                        Instructions on page 13




                                 Dexter
                              COTTON WARP
                                Art. 380

    [Illustration: DEXTER COTTON WARP, ART. 380]

                   APPROXIMATELY 850 YARDS TO A TUBE
                     TEN HALF POUND TUBES TO A BOX


                                 COLORS

  101    White
  100    Natural
  108    Yellow
  111    Orange
  154    Leaf Green
  150    Green
  281    Delft Blue
  210    Purple Navy
  118    Tan
  187    Brown
  273    Light Pink
  134    Dark Rose
  236    Med. Gray
  137    Ind. Red
  194    Eggshell
  175    Orchid
  209    Purple
  256    Rust
  269    Peach
  268    Coral
  242    Black


                          WASHING INSTRUCTIONS

The following proportions sufficient for washing three articles about
size 3×5.

To one pail of hot water add 1 cup of salt and 2 cups Ivory soap flakes
or Lux. Stir until well dissolved. Add to this sufficient cold water to
make a tepid solution to well cover the articles to be washed.

Let them remain in washer just long enough to be thoroughly cleaned.
Rinse at once thru three clean tepid changes of water. Wring out all
excess water. Lay flat to dry on a clean surface, turning frequently.

By following these instructions the articles made with Dexter Cotton
Warp will keep fresh and attractive after many washings.


                         NO. 6530—TUMBLER MUFFS

MATERIAL—Dexter Cotton Warp, Art. 380, 1 tube natural 100, 1 tube green
150. Crochet Hook No. 8—size—6 muffs in set—each 3 in. across and 2½ in.
deep.

The stitch used in muffs is the slipper stitch made by catching under
each stitch in every row to form a ridge.

Begin with bottom of muff which is all worked in natural.

1st row. Ch 5, join with sl st, 18 d c into this st, join with sl st.

Row 2. S c in each d c increasing 1 st in every 3rd st, join with sl st.

Rows 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9 and 10 worked in same way increasing as needed
to keep work flat. This piece should now measure 3 inches across—break
warp and attach green, and work up 2 rows s c ending each row with sl
st,—break warp, attach cream and work 2 rows—repeat until there are 5
rows of green and 4 of natural.

Finish top with 1 row of white scallops as follows—1 s c, 2 d c in same
st, 1 s c, skip 3 sts, 2 d c in same st,—repeat around.—Attach white to
bottom edge of muff and work one row of s c around—repeat for other
muffs.


                           NO. 6529—CURTAINS

Crocheted Panel Curtains—Size 22×78 inches.

MATERIAL—Dexter Cotton Warp, Art. 380—5 tubes natural color 100, 1 tube
each color—Rust 256, Brown 178, Green 150, Orange 111. Crochet Hook No.
5—Large Embroidery Needle.

Using Natural make a ch of 210 sts.

1st row. 1 d c in 7th st from hook, ch 2, skip 2 sts, 1 d c in next st,
repeat from * ch 5, turn.

2nd row. 1 d c over d c with ch 2 between d c—repeat this 2nd row until
curtain is desired length, fasten thread.

Colored stripes are worked in after mesh is all made, using a large
needle with double warp and making simple chain st across mesh in
curtain.

1st colored row is made 3 in. from bottom of curtain in rust
color—repeat across next row of mesh—skip 2 rows—work 3 rows in brown,
skip 2 rows, work 2 rows of green, skip 2 rows and work 3 rows of
orange—skip 32 rows and repeat stripe, continue in this manner until 5
colored stripes have been worked. Turn down casing as needed at top of
curtain and sew across. Repeat for other half of curtain using care in
counting mesh spaces so that stripes will be even when curtains are
hung.


                       NO. 6528—LACE TABLE CLOTH

Victorian Lace Luncheon Cloth.

MATERIAL—Dexter Cotton Warp, Art. 380, 4 tubes natural No. 100. Crochet
Hook No. 5.

Size 48×54 in.

This cloth is made up of 72 medallions crocheted together and may be
increased in size as desired—

For one medallion:—Ch 8, join.

1st row—*Ch 7, 1 s c in ring, repeat from * 3 times (4 loops).

2nd row—*ch 7, 3 s c in ch 7; repeat from * 3 times.

3rd row—*ch 7, skip 1 s c, 2 s c in next 2 s c, 3 s c in ch 7, repeat
from * 3 times.

4th row—*ch 7, skip 1 s c, 4 s c in next 4 s c, 4 s c in ch 7, repeat
from * 3 times.

5th row—*ch 7, skip 1 s c, 7 s c in next 7 s c, 3 s c in ch 7, repeat
from * 3 times.

6th row—*ch 7, skip 1 s c, 9 s c in next 9 s c, 3 s c in ch 7, repeat
from * 3 times.

7th row—*ch 7, skip 1 s c, 11 s c in next 11 s c, 3 s c in ch 7, repeat
from * 3 times.

8th row—*ch 7, 1 s c in ch 7, ch 7, skip 1 s c, 12 s c in next 12 s c,
repeat from * 3 times.

9th row—*ch 7, 1 s c in ch 7, ch 7, 1 s c in ch 7, ch 7, skip 1 s c, 10
s c in the next 10 s c, repeat from * 3 times.

10th row—*ch 7, 1 s c in ch 7, ch 7, 1 s c in ch 7, ch 7, 1 s c in ch 7,
ch 7, skip 1 s c, 8 s c in the next 8 s c, repeat from * 3 times.

11th row—**ch 7, 1 s c in ch 7, * repeat from ** to * 3 times, ch 7,
skip 1 s c, 6 s c in next 6 s c, **repeat from ** to ** 3 times.

12th row—**ch 7, 1 s c in ch 7, *repeat from ** to * 4 times, ch 7, skip
1 s c, 4 s c in next 4 s c, **repeat from ** to ** 3 times.

13th row—**ch 7, 1 s c in ch 7, *repeat from ** to * 5 times, ch 7, skip
1 s c, 2 s c in next 2 s c, **repeat from ** to ** 3 times, ch 3, slip
st to 3rd st of last ch 7, ch 3, 1 s c in ch 7, then ch 3, slip st, ch 3
counting as the first ch 7 of open spaces, ending with slip st. to first
ch 7.

This design is lovely when used as a chair or buffet set and will be
found most effective in many places in the home as a decorative motif.


                         NO. 6526—LUNCHEON SET
                               (5 pieces)

A perfect background for the charming new pottery ware in many luscious
shades.

MATERIAL—Dexter Cotton Warp, Art. 380—1 tube each of colors brown 178,
orange 111, rust 256, coral 268, tan 118.

Crochet Hook No. 4.

Place mats size 12×16.

Center mat 16×28.

Place Mat—Using brown ch 30, 1 d c in 3rd st from hook * 1 d c in each
of next 26 sts on ch, 1 d c in same st, (29 d c in row) ch 2, 3 d c in
end st, ch 2, 2 d c in 1st on other side of ch—repeat from * around.
Join to top of 3 ch, ch 2, (pick up back loop of st only).

2nd row. *1 d c in each d c, 2 d c, 2 ch, 2 d c in corner sp, 1 d c in
each d c at end, 2 d c, 2 ch, 2 d c in next corner sp, repeat from *
around, join, break thread.

3rd row. Attach orange in corner sp, ch 2, 1 d c in same sp, 1 d c in
next st, *ch 1, skip 1 d c, 1 d c in next st, continue to repeat from *
across to corner, 1 d c in last d c of row, 2 d c in 2 ch, 2 d c in
corner sp, ch 1, skip 1 d c, 1 d c in next st, ch 1, skip 1, 1 d c, 2
ch, 1 d c in center d c of end. Continue around, join with sl st, ch 2,
1 d c in each d c, increasing at corners and in center of each end—break
thread.

4th row. Attach rust—work same as last two rows—break thread.

5th row. Attach coral—work two rows same as rust color—break thread.
Attach tan and work 2 rows—break thread.

6th row. Attach brown, work same as 3rd row, then 1 row of s c in each
st around. Join, break thread.

This completes center portion of mat—attach tan to begin lace edge—* ch
7, 1 s c in 6th s c—repeat from *, join, next row, 8 s c over each ch
7—join, sl st to center of 8 s c, ch 7, 1 s c in center of next loop,
continue around row, repeat for two more rows of loops in 4th row of
loops—work 4 s c over ch, ch 3 for picot. Work 4 s c over same ch,
continue around mat, fasten off—repeat for 3 other mats.

Center Mat.

Ch 100 and follow directions for place mat, adding 4 more rows of lace
st in tan. Press with dampened cloth on wrong side when finished.


                          NO. 6533—BRIDGE SET
                               (4 pieces)

MATERIAL—Dexter Cotton Warp, Art. 380—one tube each following
colors—Yellow No. 108, Green No. 150, Rust No. 256, Tan No. 118, Gray
No. 236.

Crochet Hook No. 5—Place Mat 12×18 inches.

Begin with tan, ch 75, turn, catch into third ch from hook.

1st row. D c in each of next 4 sts, ch 2, skip 2, repeat this group of 4
d c, ch 2 until across row (12 meshes) ch 3 to turn.

2nd row. Catch into last d c of mesh, 4 d c in space, repeat across row.
Repeat these rows until there are 7 rows of tan. Attach green—ch 2, 1 d
c in each mesh and space in tan strip on one side and one end.

3rd row. Ch 3, turn, * 4 d c in 1st space, ch 2, d c over next space,
repeat from start to end of row. Work eight rows of green in same
manner—break warp. Attach yellow—work same as green only continue until
there are 9 rows—break warp. Attach gray. Work same as yellow only
making 10 rows—break warp. Attach rust and work across other side and
down end of mat making 10 rows—Repeat for other three mats.


                            NO. 6523—BLOUSE

A Basque Blouse showing a Tyrolean influence in quaint peasant coloring
and design—Size 16.

MATERIAL—Dexter Cotton Warp, Art. 380—2 tubes natural color 100, one
tube each color—red, green, yellow, Elgin Maid, Art. 1127, for flowers
and trimmings.

Crochet Hook No. 5.

One shell is 3 d c, ch 1, 1 d c in same st—Blouse is started at point at
bottom of front section.

Row 1—Ch 4, join, ch 3, 2 d c in same st, ch 1, 1 d c in same st (the ch
3 at beginning of each row is counted as first d c of shell).

Row 2—Ch 3, 2 d c over ch 1, ch 1, 1 d c over this st, (shell) 1 shell
between 2nd and 3rd d c, turn.

Row 3—Repeat row 2 making 3 shells.

Row 4—1 shell over ch 1, 1 shell over next ch 1, 1 s c in next ch 1,
turn.

Row 5—Work back 3 shells, turn.

Row 6—1 shell over ch 1, 1 s c in next ch 1, turn.

Row 7—Work back 2 shells, turn. This allows more length in slant to
underarm seam than on vest point in front. Now work clear across row.

Row 8—5 shells, ending with 2 d c.

Row 9—6 shells.

Row 10—7 shells.

Row 11—8 shells.

Row 12—8 shells.

Row 13—8 shells and 2 d c of 9th shell.

Row 14—10 shells.

Row 15—10 shells.

Row 16—10 shells.

Row 17—12 shells.

Row 18—5 shells, turn, and work back to bring this side of work
straight. Vest point should measure 4½ inches to center front and 6½
inches to side seam. To keep work straight from this point on, do not
work the last shell between the 2nd and 3rd d c of the previous row, but
work 1 d c and turn. Work 31 rows from beginning of underarm blouse seam
to arm hole, increasing gradually so that there are 14 shells across—sew
at arm hole.

Row 32—Drop 1 shell for arm hole.

Row 33—Drop 1 shell for arm hole.

Work 20 rows to neckline.

55th row—Drop 1 shell in shoulder seam, keeping neck edge straight.

Row 56—Work 7 shells.

Row 57—Work 6 shells (drop 1 shell).

Row 58—Work 5 shells.

Row 59—Work 4 shells.

Row 60—Work 3 shells—fasten thread.

Repeat for other side of front.

Back—ch 81, 1 shell in every 3rd at of ch (28 shells).

Repeat for 4 rows working evenly.

Row 5—Begin to decrease by leaving off 1 d c on first shell of each
side, gradually decrease in this way for 9 rows, then drop off 1 shell
at each side. Work 4 rows even for waist line, now start to increase
gradually up to armhole, same as front.

30 rows or 12 inches to arm hole. Work 23 rows, decrease 1 shell on each
side for shoulder for 5 rows. Mark center of back, 3 shells on each side
of center of neck. Work 1½ shells on each side to make neck rounding.
Fasten thread.

Sleeve—ch 57, 1 shell in every 3rd st (18 shells).

Row 2—Increase 1 d c on each side—repeat row 2 four times increasing
each row.

Row 7 to 11—Repeat as for row 2 (making 22 shells in row).

Row 12—Work evenly—1 row shells.

Row 13—Drop one shell on each side (20 shells).

Rows 14 to 16—20 shells each worked evenly.

Row 17—19 shells.

Rows 18 to 21—18 shells.

Row 22—17 shells.

Rows 23 to 25—16 shells.

Row 26—15 shells (decrease 1 shell).

Rows 27 to 29—14 shells.

Row 30—13 shells.

Rows 31 to 33—12 shells.

Row 34—11 shells.

Rows 35 to 37—10 shells.

Row 38—9 shells.

Row 39—8 shells.

Row 40—7 shells.

Row 41—6 shells—fasten thread. Repeat for other sleeve.

Collar: Make a chain 14 inches long, 1 d c in each st of ch—attach red
thread; 1 s c in each d c, fasten thread. Attach yellow; 1 s c in each s
c, fasten. Attach green; 1 s c in each s c, fasten thread. Sew to neck
edge of blouse.

Pocket Flaps—ch 27, work as directed for collar finishing edge in 3
colors. Repeat for second pocket.

Belt—Ch 14, 1 s c in each st—repeat this row until belt is 6 inches
long, now decrease 2 s c at each side of every row until one st
remains—fasten thread. Repeat for other half of belt—but making no
decrease and working strip 7 inches in length.

To assemble blouse—whip shoulder and underarm seams together, also join
sleeve seams—using color as on collar—work down right side of blouse
front from neck edge allowing 4 ch for each buttonhole and 12 s c
between each buttonhole making 1 st buttonhole after attaching red
thread—work eight down front of blouse and continue colored trim around
blouse and up front point to first button. Finish left side of blouse
with 3 rows s c in material warp. Work colored edge on sleeves. Sew
bright red buttons to blouse, attach belt ends to underarm seam three
inches from blouse edge—pull straight end over center of red buckle and
fasten, pointed end is to be drawn through this buckle at center back to
adjust waist of blouse—Match sleeve seam and underarm seam and whip
together 6 inches on both sides from this place—make 4 pleats across top
of sleeve using fullness and continue sewing in sleeve. Press blouse
seams—Sew simulated pocket pieces at an angle slanting down placing 1
end opposite 2nd button and about 2½ inches away from this button.

Flowers—using colored thread—ch 4, join, 14 d c in ring, make 3 flowers
for each pocket—chain st in place with a different color and work large
spot of this color in each flower center—leaves and stems are done in
simple chain st in green.


                             NO. 6536—BELT

Inspired by the costumes of Old Mexico.

MATERIAL—Dexter Cotton Warp, Art. 380, 1 tube yellow No. 108, 1 tube
each red No. 137, green 150, and blue 210. This is sufficient material
to make both the belt and matching bag No. 6537.

Crochet Hook No. 6.

Belt—using yellow—Ch 21, turn.

1st row. 1 s c in 2nd st on ch, ch 1, skip 1, 1 d c in next st, repeat
to end of row, ch 2, turn.

2nd row. 1 s c under 1 st loop of 1st row, ch 1, s c in next loop,
repeat across row—repeat this row 3 times, break warp—attach green—work
1 row—attach blue for 1 row—red for 1 row—green for 1 row, blue 1 row,
red 1 row—work yellow for 41 inches and repeat stripe as above, ending
with 4 rows yellow.

Fringe—Cut a piece of cardboard 3 inches wide and 6 inches long—wind
each color used around this the long way about 50 times—cut through at
one side—pick up one strand of each color, fold over and slip loop end
through mesh in belt end, draw all ends of warp through this loop and
pull up to knot fringe—continue fringe across both ends of belt.


                         NO. 6537—ZIPPER PURSE

Matching Belt Style 6536.

MATERIAL—given with directions for No. 6536. 1 ten inch Talon fastener
for bag size 6×10 inches.

Using yellow for 1st row. Ch 85, 1 s c in 2nd st from hook, ch 1, skip
1, 1 s c in next s c, repeat to end of row, ch 2, turn.

2nd row. S c under chain loop, ch 1, s c in next loop, repeat to end of
row, ch 2, turn. Continue until work measures two inches, break warp.
Attach green, work 1 row, 1 row blue, 1 red, 1 green, 1 blue, 1 red,
then yellow until piece measures 10 inches. Fold over and whip ends of
bag together.

Sew Talon fastener in place—make a 4 inch tassel of all colors used in
bag and attach to zipper pull. Bag may be lined if desired to give it
firmness.


                          NO. 6532—UTILITY BAG

MATERIAL—Dexter Cotton Warp, Art. 380, 1 tube each of following
colors—brown 178, rust 256, eggshell 194, gray 236.

1 pr. 11 inch bag frames.

Crochet Hook No. 6.

1st row using brown—Ch 5, skip 1st of ch, 1 s c in each of 4 remaining s
c.

2nd row. 2 s c in each s c.

3rd row. 2 s c in 1st s c, 1 s c in each s c, 2 s c in last s c. This
increases stripe.

4th row. Same as 3rd row.

5th row. 1 s c in each s c, fasten thread, attach rust color.

6th, 7th and 8th rows. Same as 3rd row.

9th row. Same as 5th. Fasten thread.

10th row. Attach gray, 2 s c in 1st s c, 1 s c in each s c, 2 s c in
last s c.

11th and 12th rows. Same as 10th row.

13th row. 1 s c in each s c, fasten off. Attach eggshell, turn, repeat
6th, 7th, 8th and 9th rows 20 times repeating color arrangement of
stripes as above.

The bag should now measure about 14 in. across stripe. This is 93rd row,
fasten warp and turn.

94th row. Sl st in 1st st, 1 s c in each s c until last st, then work 2
s c in s c.

95th row. 2 s c in 1st s c, 1 s c in each s c making sl st in last s c.

96th row. Sl st in 1st s c, 1 s c in each s c, 2 s c in last s c.

97th row. 1 s c in each s c, making sl st in last s c. Repeat 94th,
95th, 96th and 97th rows 9 times. Work should now be 20 in. long from
beginning to hook.

124th row. Sl st in 1st ch, 1 s c in each s c making 2 s c in last s c.

125th row. 2 s c in 1st s c, 1 s c in each s c until 2nd s c from end, 1
sl st in last s c.

126th row. Sl in 1st s c, 1 s c in each s c making 2 s c in last s c.

127th row. 1 s c in each s c until 2nd s c from end, sl st in last s c.
Repeat 124th, 125th, 126th, 127th rows 2 times.

136th row. Sl st in 1st s c, 1 s c in each s c until 2nd s c from end.
Sl st in last s c.

137th row. Sl st in 1st s c, 1 s c in each s c until 2nd s c from end,
sl st in last s c.

138th row. Sl st in 1st s c, 1 s c in each s c until 2nd s c from end,
sl st in last s c.

139th row. Sl st in 1st s c, 1 s c in each s c until 2nd s c from end,
sl st in last s c. Repeat rows 136, 137, 138 and 139 14 times. Fold
piece over with right side in and sew bag together across both sides
beginning at bottom and sewing up to within 3 in. of top. Turn, and sew
to bag handles with brown warp holding in extra fullness and making
stitches very close over bag handles. Work 1 row of s c around opening
on each side.


                         NO. 6534—SHOPPING BAG

Size 12×18 inches.

MATERIAL—Dexter Cotton Warp, Art. 380—1 tube eggshell No. 194, 1 tube
brown No. 178. 1 pr. wood frames 12 inches wide, 1-3 yd. brown sateen
for lining.

Crochet Hook No. 5.

Using natural ch 104.

Row 2. 1 d c in 4th st from hook, ch 2, skip 2, 1 d c in next st. Always
ch 3 to turn in next 4 rows.

Rows 3, 4, 5 and 6. Same as row 2. Break warp and attach brown.

7th row. Ch 3, * 1 d c in d c of previous row, 2 d c in sp, 1 d c in d c
of row below, * repeat across row.

8th row. Ch 4, * 1 d c in 4th d c in row below, 2 d c in space, 1 d c in
d c of row below, repeat from star. Break warp, attach eggshell—work 5
rows of mesh as in 1st row. Break warp, attach brown and work 4 rows as
instructed for 1st brown row, break warp.

Attach eggshell, work 5 rows mesh, attach brown, work 4 rows as before,
attach eggshell, work eight rows of mesh. Repeat for other side of
bag—Sew bag together on both sides beginning 3 inches below top and
across bottom. Fold lining over and stitch to fit bag—blind stitch into
crocheted section. Use brown to attach bag to handles, gathering in
extra fullness across top.


                          NO. 6531—LAUNDRY BAG

Size 16×24 inches.

MATERIAL—Dexter Cotton Warp, Art. 380, one tube natural color 100, 1
tube any other shade desired.

Crochet Hook No. 4.

The bag illustrated is made in stripes of many colors, each separated by
a row of natural color warp.

Using natural ch 260, join with sl st.

Row 1. Ch 3, 1 d c in 1st st from hook. * Ch 1, 1 d c in 2nd ch, 1 d c
in 3rd ch, * repeat from star and end row with sl st.

Row 2. Same as row 1 in natural warp, break thread.

Row 3 and 4. Attach color and work same as previous rows. Continue
working alternate stripes of 2 rows natural and 2 in color until the
86th row.

87th row. Ch 3, * 1 d c over each st, * repeat making solid row ending
in slip stitch.

88th row. Ch 3, 1 d c over 1st stitch, * ch 1, 1 d c over 3rd st, 1 d c
over 4th st, * repeat to end of row, 1 sl st at end.

89th row. Ch 3, * 1 d c over each st, * repeat around row ending in sl
st.

Turn bag to wrong side and holding ends evenly close bottom by
crocheting across in natural with * 1 s c over 1st st over 3rd st over
5th st, * repeat to end.

To make cord—Use two strands of warp and ch 400. Begin at center on one
side of bag in 2nd row and run cord through alternate groups of d c
until back at starting point. Finish ends of cord with 4 inch tassels.


                           NO. 6524—BEDSPREAD

Williamsburg design in a formal crocheted bed spread.

MATERIAL—Dexter Cotton Warp, Art. 380. 14 tubes natural color 100. No. 3
Crochet Hook—Size 90×108 inches.

This spread is made up of 56 medallions all made separately and sewed
together to form complete spread.

The following instructions are for one medallion and are repeated for
all others needed:

Ch 6, join.

1st row. Ch 3, 1 d c in ring, ch 1, * 2 d c in ring, ch 1, repeat from *
6 times (having 8 groups with ch 1 between each group of 2 d c) join to
ch 3 with sl st.

2nd row. Ch 3, 1 d c in d c, ch 3, * 1 d c in each of next 2 d c, ch 3,
repeat from *.

3rd row. Ch 3, 1 d c in d c, ch 4, * 1 d c in each of next 2 d c, ch 4,
repeat from *.

4th row. Ch 3, 1 d c in d c, ch 3, * 2 d c over ch 4, ch 3, 1 d c in
each of next 2 d c, ch 3, repeat from *.

5th row. Ch 3, 1 d c in d c, * ch 3, 1 d c over ch 3, 1 d c in each of
next 2 d c, 1 d c over ch 3, ch 3, 1 d c in each of 2 d c, repeat from
*.

6th row. Ch 3, 1 d c in d c, * ch 3, 1 d c over ch, 1 d c in each of
next 4 d c, 1 d c over ch, ch 3, 1 d c in each of next 2 d c repeat from
*.

7th row. Ch 3, 1 d c in d c, * ch 3, 1 d c over ch, 1 d c in each of
next 6 d c, 1 d c over ch, ch 3, 1 d c in each of next 2 d c, repeat
from *.

8th row. Ch 3, 1 d c in d c, * ch 2, 1 d c over ch, 1 d c in each of
next 8 d c over ch, ch 2, 1 d c in each of next 2 d c, repeat from *.

9th row. Ch 3, 1 d c in d c, * ch 3, skip 1st d c, 1 d c in each of next
8 d c, ch 3, 1 d c in each of next 2 d c, repeat from *.

10th row. Ch 5, 1 d c in d c, 2 d c over ch, * ch 2, skip 1st d c, 1 d c
in each of next 6 d c, ch 2, 2 d c over ch; 1 d c over d c, ch 2, 1 d c
over next d c, 2 d c over ch, repeat from *.

11th row. Ch 3, 2 d c in ch 2, ch 2, 3 d c in same ch 2, * ch 2, skip 3
d c, 3 d c over next ch, ch 1, skip 1 d c, 1 d c in each of next 4 d c,
ch 1, 3 d c over ch, ch 1, 3 d c over next ch, ch 1, 3 d c over next ch,
ch 1, skip 1 d c, 1 d c in each of next 4 d c, ch 1, 3 d c over ch, ch
2, 3 d c in ch 2, ch 2, 3 d c over same ch, repeat from *.

12th row. Ch 5, 3 d c in ch 2, ch 2, 3 d c in same ch, * ch 1, 1 d c in
3rd d c, ch 2, 3 d c over ch, ch 1, skip 1 d c, 1 d c in each of next 2
d c, ch 1, 3 d c over next ch, ch 1, 3 d c over next ch, ch 1, 3 d c
over next ch, ch 1, 3 d c over next ch, ch 1, skip 1 d c, 1 d c in each
of next 2 d c, ch 1, 3 d c over next ch, ch 2, skip 2 d c and ch; 1 d c
over next d c, ch 1, 3 d c, ch 2, 3 d c in next ch, repeat from *.

13th row. Ch 5, 1 d c in 1st d c, ch 2, * 3 d c, ch 2, 3 d c in ch 2, ch
2, 1 d c in 3rd d c, ch 2, 1 d c in next d c, ch 3, skip ch 3, 3 d c in
next ch: ch 1, 3 d c in next ch, ch 1, 3 d c in next ch, ch 1, 3 d c in
next ch, ch 1, 3 d c in next ch, ch 1, 3 d c in next ch, ch 3, skip 2 d
c and ch 3, 1 d c in next d c, ch 2, 1 d c in next d c, ch 2, repeat
from *.

14th row. Ch 5, 1 d c in next d c, ch 2, 1 d c in next d c, ch 2, * 3 d
c, ch 2, 3 d c in ch, ch 2, 1 d c in 3rd d c, ch 2, 1 d c in next d c,
ch 2, 1 d c in next d c, ch 3, 1 d c in each of next 3 d c, 2 d c over
ch, 1 d c in each of next 3 d c, ch 2, skip 1st ch, 3 d c in next ch, ch
1, 3 d c in next ch, 1 d c in each of next 3 d c, ch 3, 1 d c in next d
c, ch 2, 1 d c in next d c, ch 2, 1 d c in next d c, ch 2, repeat from
*.

15th row. Ch 5, * 1 d c in next d c, ch 2, 1 d c in next d c, ch 2, 1 d
c in next d c, ch 2, 3 d c, ch 2, 3 d c in ch, ch 2, 1 d c in 3rd d c;
ch 2, 1 d c in next d c, ch 2, 1 d c in next d c, ch 2, 1 d c in next d
c, ch 2, 1 d c in each of next 6 d c, ch 1, 3 d c, in next ch: ch 1, 3 d
c in next ch, ch 1, 3 d c in next ch: ch 1, skip 2 d c, 1 d c in each of
next 6 d c: ch 2, 1 d c in next d c, ch 2, repeat from *.

16th row. Ch 5, * 1 d c in next d c, ch 2, 1 d c in next d c, ch 2, 1 d
c in next d c, ch 2, 1 d c in next d c, ch 2, 3 d c, ch 2, 3 d c in next
ch, ch 2, 1 d c in 3rd d c, ch 2, 1 d c in next d c, ch 2, 1 d c in next
d c, ch 2, 1 d c in next d c, ch 2, 1 d c in next d c, ch 2, 1 d c in
each of next 4 d c, ch 1, 3 d c in ch, ch 1, 3 d c in next ch, ch 1, 3 d
c in next ch, ch 1, 3 d c in next ch, ch 1, skip 2 d c, 1 d c in each of
next 4 d c, ch 2, 1 d c in each of next 4 d c, ch 2, 1 d c in next d c,
ch 2, repeat from *.

17th row. Ch 5, * 1 d c in next d c, ** ch 2, 1 d c in next d c, repeat
from ** 3 times: ch 2, 3 d c, ch 2, 3 d c in next ch, ch 2, 1 d c in 3rd
d c, *** ch 2, 1 d c in next d c, repeat from *** 4 times. Ch 1, 1 d c
in each of next 2 d c, **** ch 1, 3 d c in ch, repeat from **** 4 times,
ch 1, skip 2 d c, 1 d c in each of next 2 d c, ch 2, 1 d c in next d c,
ch 2, repeat from *.

18th row. Ch 5, * 1 d c in next d c, ** ch 2, 1 d c in next d c, repeat
from ** 4 times, ch 2, 3 d c, ch 2, 3 d c in next ch, ch 2, 1 d c in 3rd
d c, *** ch 2, 1 d c in next d c, repeat from *** 5 times, ch 2, 1 d c
in each of next 2 d c, 1 d c over ch, **** ch 1, 3 d c in ch, repeat
from **** 3 times, ch 1, 1 d c in ch: 1 d c in each of next 2 d c, ch 2,
1 d c in next d c, ch 2, repeat from *.

When all medallions are crocheted whip together eight to form one strip,
make seven such strips, then whip these together using the same thread
as for crocheting.

Fringe—Cut a piece of cardboard 7 in. long and 3 in. wide, wind warp
around this about fifty times, cut through one side and lay these
threads to one side, cut several hundred such pieces, pick up nine of
these strands of warp fold over one time, slip loop end through a mesh
in edge of bed spread and draw cut ends through this loop—repeat in
every other mesh around both sides and one end of spread. Press spread
and trim fringe evenly.


                          NO. 6545—FRILLED MAT

A dainty design from the days of crinoline and hoop skirts.

MATERIAL—Dexter Cotton Warp, Art. 380, 1 tube natural No. 100. Crochet
Hook No. 5. Size 16 inches in width. Ch 6, join with sl st.

1st row. Ch 4, 1 d c in 1st ch, * ch 1, 1 d c in 2nd ch, ch 1, 1 d c in
2nd ch, * repeat and make 1 sl st to end row. There are 15 d c in center
circle.

2nd row. Ch 3, work 33 d c in row around ending with sl st.

3rd row. Ch 3, * 1 d c over 1st d c from left of hook in 2nd row. 1 d c
over 2nd d c, 1 d c over 3rd d c, 2 d c over 4th d c, * repeat ending
row with 1 sl st.

4th row. Ch 3, 1 d c over 1st d c from left of hook in 3rd row, 1 d c
over 2nd d c, 1 d c over 3rd d c, 2 d c over 4th d c, repeat around
ending row with sl st.

5th, 6th and 7th rows. Follow directions for 4th row.

8th row. Ch 10, fasten with s c over 1st d c from left of hook in 7th
row. * ch 10 and fasten with s c over next d c, * repeat until end of
circle then sl st into 1st, 2nd, 3rd, 4th and 5th ch of 1st loop to the
left of hook in 8th row so that 9th row may be started.

9th row. Ch 5 and fasten with s c into 5th ch in 1st loop to left of
hook in 8th row, * ch 5 and fasten with s c into 5th ch in 2nd loop in
8th row, * repeat to end of circle, then sl st into 1st, 2nd, and 3rd ch
of 1st loop to the left of hook in 9th row.

10th row. Ch 6 and fasten with s c into 3rd ch of 1st loop to left of
hook in 9th row, * ch 6 and fasten with s c into 3rd ch of 2nd loop in
9th row. * Repeat to end of row, then sl st into 1st, 2nd and 3rd ch of
1st loop to the 11th row. Ch 7, and fasten with s c into 3rd ch of 1st
loop to left of hook in 10th row, * ch 7 and fasten with s c into 3rd ch
of 2nd loop in 10th row. * Repeat to end of row, sl st into 1st, 2nd,
3rd ch of 1st loop to left of hook in 11th row.

12th row. Same as 11th row.

13th row. Ch 8 and fasten with s c in 3rd ch of 1st loop to left of hook
in 12th row, * ch 8 and fasten with s c into 3rd ch of 2nd loop in 12th
row. * Repeat to end of row. Sl st into 1st, 2nd, 3rd, 4th ch of 1st
loop to the left of hook in 13th row.

14th row. Ch 9, fasten with s c into 4th ch of 1st loop to left of hook
in 13th row, * ch 9, fasten with s c into 4th ch of 2nd loop in 13th
row. * Repeat to end of row, then sl st into 1st, 2nd, 3rd, 4th and 5th
ch of 1st loop to the left of hook in 14th row.

15th, 16th, 17th rows. Same as 14th.

18th row. Ch 10 and fasten with s c into 5th ch of 1st loop to left of
hook in 17th row. * ch 10 and fasten with s c into 5th ch of 1st loop to
left of hook in 17th row. * {duplicate line omitted from electronic
edition} Repeat to end of row, then sl st into 1st, 2nd, 3rd, 4th and
5th ch of 1st loop to left of hook in 18th row.

19th and 20th row. Same as 18th.

Starch mat quite heavily and iron while still damp.


                              NO. 6538—RUG

MATERIAL—Dexter Cotton Warp, Art. 380, 1 tube each color, natural 100,
pink 273, purple 209, dark rose 134, wine 143, orchid 175. Crochet Hook
No. 3.

Use two strands of one color and one strand of natural warp for each
triangle in rug—Crochet 3 purple triangles, 2 wine, 1 pink, 1 orchid and
1 rose color.

To make one triangle—Ch 54, 1 s c in 3rd st from hook, continue working
1 s c in each st of chain across (50 s c in 1st row).

2nd row. Ch 2, turn, repeat row of s c across work.

3rd row. Begin decrease by dropping one st at end of every other row on
one side only, keeping the other side straight.

Continue working triangle in this manner until only 1 st remains, fasten
thread. Repeat for other 7 sections. When all are crocheted whip
together using a large needle and natural warp. Join one wine and purple
triangle, one wine and rose, one orchid and purple, one pink and purple
to make four rectangles, now join these pieces so that diamond in center
of rug is made up of pink, rose, orchid and purple. Press rug with a
damp cloth and hot iron.


                         NO. 6541—DAVENPORT SET

MATERIAL—Dexter Cotton Warp, Art. 380. Eggshell color 194—1 tube.
Crochet Hook No. 5.

Back Rest—Size 12×16 inches.

Arm Rest—Size 7×12 inches.

Back Rest. Ch 143, turn, 1 d c in 4th st from hook, ch 2, skip 2, 1 d c
in next st, repeat across row making 33 spaces.

2nd row. Ch 13, turn, 1 d c in 7th ch from hook, make 4 open sp, 4 d c,
3 sp, 4 d c, 3 sp, 4 d c, 3 sp, 4 d c, 5 sp, 4 d c, 3 sp, 4 d c, 3 sp, 4
d c, 3 sp, 4 d c, 4 sp on 1 sp in last row, attach thread and slip
stitch to make total of 4 sp same as opposite side.

3rd row. Ch 7, 1 d c in corner st of last row and make 4 sp (chain of
the beginning of each row counts as 1 sp) * 4 d c, 1 sp, * repeat from
star 17 times ending with 4 sp.

4th row. Ch 7, 1 d c in corner st of last row and make 6 sp, * 4 d c, 3
sp, * repeat from star 3 times 4 d c, 4 sp, * 4 d c, 3 sp, * repeat from
star 3 times, 4 d c, 6 sp.

5th row. Ch 7, 1 d c in corner st of last row, 3 sp, 10 d c, 33 sp, 10 d
c, 3 sp.

6th row. Ch 5, 3 sp, 7 d c, 4 sp, 13 d c, 4 sp, 10 d c, 2 sp, 4 d c, 2
sp, 10 d c, 4 sp, 13 d c, 4 sp, 7 d c, 3 sp.

7th row. Ch 7, 1 d c in corner st of last row. Total 4 sp, 4 d c, 3 sp,
7 d c, 4 sp, 4 d c, 2 sp, 4 d c, 3 sp, 4 d c, 1 sp, 4 d c, 1 sp, 4 d c,
3 sp, 4 d c, 2 sp, 4 d c, 4 sp, 7 d c, 3 sp, 4 d c, 4 sp.

8th row—Ch 7, 1 d c in corner st of last row. Total 3 sp, 4 d c, 4 sp, 4
d c, 3 sp, 7 d c, 2 sp, 4 d c, 1 sp, 4 d c, 1 sp, 4 d c, 2 sp, 4 d c, 1
sp, 4 d c, 2 sp, 4 d c, 1 sp, 4 d c, 1 sp, 4 d c, 2 sp, 7 d c, 3 sp, 4
sp, 4 d c, 3 sp.

9th row—Ch 5, 2 sp, 4 d c, 1 sp, 4 d c, 2 sp, 4 d c, 3 sp, 4 d c, 1 sp,
4 d c, 2 sp, 4 d c, 2 sp, 7 d c, 2 sp, 4 d c, 1 sp, 4 d c, 2 sp, 7 d c,
2 sp, 4 d c, 2 sp, 4 d c, 1 sp, 4 d c, 3 sp, 4 d c, 2 sp, 4 d c, 1 sp, 4
d c, 2 sp. 10th row—Ch 5, (3 sp, 4 d c), 4 times, 1 sp, 4 d c, 4 sp, 4 d
c, 1 sp, 4 d c, 1 sp, 4 d c, 4 sp, 4 d c, 1 sp (4 d c, 3 sp) 4 times.

11th row—Ch 5, 6 sp, 4 d c, 2 sp, 7 d c, 1 sp, 10 d c, 3 sp, 13 d c, 2
sp, 4 d c, 2 sp, 13 d c, 3 sp, 10 d c, 1 sp, 7 d c, 2 sp, 4 d c, 6 sp.

12th row—Ch 5, 3 sp, 4 d c, 2 sp, 4 d c, 1 sp, 4 d c, 2 sp, 4 d c, 25
sp, 4 d c, 2 sp, 4 d c, 1 sp, 4 d c, 2 sp, 4 d c, 3 sp.

13th row—Ch 5, 2 sp, (4 d c, 1 sp) 3 times, 7 d c, 1 sp, 4 d c, 25 sp, 4
d c, 1 sp, 7 d c, (1 sp, 4 d c) 3 times, 2 sp.

14th row—Ch 5, 3 sp, 4 d c, 2 sp, 4 d c, 4 sp, 4 d c, 25 sp, 4 d c, 4
sp, 4 d c, 2 sp, 4 d c, 3 sp.

15th row—Ch 5, 7 sp, 4 d c, 2 sp, 4 d c, 27 sp, 4 d c, 2 sp, 4 d c, 7
sp.

16th row—Ch 5, 3 sp, 4 d c, 4 sp, 7 d c, 14 sp, 4 d c, 14 sp, 7 d c, 4
sp, 4 d c, 3 sp.

17th row—Ch 5, 2 sp, 4 d c, 1 sp, 4 d c, 2 sp, 4 d c, 2 sp, 4 d c, 10
sp, 4 d c, 2 sp, 4 d c, 2 sp, 4 d c, 10 sp, 4 d c, 2 sp, 4 d c, 2 sp, 4
d c, 1 sp, 4 d c, 2 sp.

18th row—Ch 5, 3 sp, 4 d c, 2 sp, 4 d c, 4 sp, 4 d c, 8 sp, 7 d c, 5 sp,
7 d c, 8 sp, 4 d c, 4 sp, 4 d c, 2 sp, 4 d c, 3 sp.

19th row—Ch 5, 6 sp, 4 d c, 1 sp, 7 d c, 1 sp, 4 d c, 7 sp, 7 d c, 1 sp,
4 d c, 1 sp, 4 d c, 1 sp, 4 d c, 1 sp, 7 d c, 7 sp, 4 d c, 1 sp, 7 d c,1
sp 4 d c, 6 sp.

20th row—Ch 5, 3 sp, 4 d c, 2 sp, 4 d c, 2 sp, 4 d c, 1 sp, 4 d c, 6 sp,
7 d c, 1 sp, 7 d c, 1 sp, 4 d c, 1 sp, 7 d c, 1 sp, 7 d c, 6 sp, 4 d c,
1 sp, 4 d c, 2 sp, 4 d c, 2 sp, 4 d c, 3 sp.

21st row—Ch 5, 2 sp, 4 d c, 1 sp, 4 d c, 2 sp, 7 d c, 2 sp, 4 d c, 5 sp,
7 d c, 1 sp, 10 d c, 1 sp, 4 d c, 1 sp, 10 d c, 1 sp, 7 d c, 5 sp, 4 d
c, 2 sp, 7 d c, 2 sp, 4 d c, 1 sp, 4 d c, 2 sp.

22nd row—Ch 5, 3 sp, 4 d c, 6 sp, 4 d c, 7 sp, 16 d c, 1 sp, 4 d c, 1
sp, 16 d c, 7 sp, 4 d c, 6 sp, 4 d c, 3 sp.

23rd row—Ch 5, 8 sp, 7 d c, 9 sp, 13 d c, 1 sp, 4 d c, 1 sp, 13 d c, 9
sp, 7 d c, 8 sp.

24th row—Ch 5, 3 sp, 4 d c, 3 sp, 4 d c, 2 sp, 4 d c, 9 sp, 10 d c, 1
sp, 4 d c, 1 sp, 10 d c, 9 sp, 4 d c, 2 sp, 4 d c, 3 sp, 4 d c, 3 sp.

25th row—Ch 5, 2 sp, 4 d c, 1 sp, 4 d c, 1 sp, 4 d c, 4 sp, 4 d c, 10
sp, 4 d c, 1 sp, 4 d c, 1 sp, 4 d c, 10 sp, 4 d c, 4 sp, 4 d c, 1 sp, 4
d c, 1 sp 4 d c, 2 sp.

26th row—Ch 5, 3 sp, 4 d c, 2 sp, 4 d c, 1 sp, 7 d c, 1 sp, 4 d c, 5 sp,
13 d c, 2 sp, 4 d c, 1 sp, 4 d c, 2 sp, 13 d c, 5 sp, 4 d c, 1 sp, 7 d
c, 1 sp 4 d c, 2 sp, 4 d c, 3 sp.

27th row—Ch 5, 6 sp, 4 d c, 1 sp, 4 d c, 2 sp, 4 d c, 4 sp, 22 d c, 1
sp, 4 d c, 1 sp, 22 d c, 4 sp, 4 d c, 2 sp, 4 d c, 1 sp, 4 d c, 6 sp.

28th row—Ch 5, 3 sp, 4 d c, 2 sp, 4 d c, 2 sp, 7 d c, 5 sp, 7 d c, 2 sp,
10 d c, 1 sp, 4 d c, 1 sp, 10 d c, 2 sp, 7 d c, 5 sp, 7 d c, 2 sp, 4 d
c, 2 sp, 4 d c, 3 sp.

29th row—Ch 5, 2 sp, 4 d c, 1 sp, 4 d c, 2 sp, 4 d c, 8 sp,7 d c, 1 sp,
10 d c, 5 sp, 10 d c, 1 sp, 7 d c, 8 sp, 4 d c, 2 sp, 4 d c, 1 sp, 4 d
c, 2 sp.

30th row—Ch 5 3 sp, 4 d c, 4 sp, 7 d c, 5 sp, 19 d c, 3 sp, 4 d c, 3 sp,
19 d c, 5 sp, 7 d c, 4 sp, 4 d c, 3 sp.

31st row—Ch 5, 7 sp, 4 d c, 8 sp, 10 d c, 5 sp, 4 d c, 5 sp, 10 d c, 8
sp, 4 d c, 7 sp.

32nd row—Ch 5, 3 sp, 4 d c, 4 sp, 7 d c, 7 sp, 4 d c, 5 sp, 4 d c, 1 sp,
4 d c, 5 sp, 4 d c, 7 sp, 7 d c, 4 sp, 4 d c, 3 sp.

33rd row—Ch 5, 2 sp, 4 d c, 1 sp, 4 d c, 2 sp, 4 d c, 2 sp, 4 d c, 13
sp, 4 d c, 13 sp, 4 d c, 2 sp, 4 d c, 2 sp, 4 d c, 1 sp, 4 d c, 2 sp.

34th row—Ch 5, 3 sp, 4 d c, 2 sp, 4 d c, 4 sp, 4 d c, 25 sp, 4 d c, 4
sp, 4 d c, 2 sp, 4 d c, 3 sp.

35th row—Ch 5, 6 sp, 4 d c, 1 sp, 7 d c, 1 sp, 4 d c, 25 sp, 4 d c, 1
sp, 7 d c, 1 sp, 4 d c, 6 sp.

36th row—Ch 5, 3 sp, 4 d c, 2 sp, 4 d c, 2 sp, 4 d c, 1 sp, 4 d c, 25
sp, 4 d c, 1 sp, 4 d c, 2 sp, 4 d c, 2 sp, 4 d c, 3 sp.

37th row—Ch 5, 2 sp, 4 d c, 1 sp, 4 d c, 2 sp, 7 d c, 2 sp, 4 d c, 25
sp, 4 d c, 2 sp, 7 d c, 2 sp, 4 d c, 1 sp, 4 d c, 2 sp.

38th row—Ch 5, 3 sp, 4 d c, 6 sp, 4 d c, 27 sp, 4 d c, 6 sp, 4 d c, 3
sp.

39th row—Ch 5, 8 sp, 7 d c, 29 sp, 7 d c, 8 sp.

40th row—Ch 5, 3 sp, 4 d c, 3 sp, 4 d c, 2 sp, 4 d c, 27 sp 4 d c, 2 sp,
4 d c, 3 sp, 4 d c, 3 sp.

41st row—1 d c, in each st.

Edging—3 s c in each sp.* ch 3, slip st in first st (a picot) 3 s c, ch
in next space. Repeat from *.

                                Arm Rest

1st row—Ch 42, slip stitch back for 7 sts (these 7 sts are left to work
on, on the end of the 2nd row) Ch 3, 1 d c in 5th ch, work across, 9
spaces.

2nd row—Ch 10, 1 d c in 7 ch from hook. Work across having 13 spaces.

3rd row—Ch 7, d c in corner st of last row. Total 2 sp, 13 d c, 3 sp, 13
d c, 2 sp.

4th row—Ch 7, d c in corner st of last row, 2 sp, 4 d c, 4 sp, 4 d c, 1
sp, 4 d c, 4 sp, 4 d c, 2 sp.

5th row—Ch 7, d c in corner st of last row, 2 sp, 4 d c, 2 sp, 7 d c, 2
sp, 4 d c, 2 sp, 7 d c, 2 sp, 4 d c, 2 sp.

6th row—Ch 7, 1 d c in corner st of last row, 2 sp, 14 d c, 3 sp, 4
times 4 d c, 2 sp.

7th row—Ch 5, 2 sp, 4 d c, 1 sp, 7 d c, 1 sp, 10 d c, 1 sp, 10 d c, 1
sp, 7 d c, 1 sp, 4 d c, 2 sp.

8th row—Ch 5, 2 sp, 4 d c, 1 sp, 4 d c, 1 sp, 4 d c, 7 sp, 4 d c, 1 sp,
4 d c, 1 sp, 4 d c, 2 sp.

9th row—Ch 5, 2 sp, (4 d c, 3 sp) 4 times, 4 d c, 2 sp.

10th row—Ch 5, 3 sp, 4 d c, 2 sp, 4 d c, 2 sp, 10 d c, 2 sp, 4 d c, 2
sp, 4 d c, 3 sp.

11th row—Ch 5, 4 sp, 7 d c, 2 sp, 7 d c, 1 sp, 7 d c, 2 sp, 7 d c, 4 sp.

12th row—Ch 5, 6 sp, 4 d c, 2 sp, 10 d c, 2 sp, 4 d c, 6 sp.

13th row—Ch 5, 3 sp, 7 d c, 1 sp, 4 d c, 3 sp, 4 d c, 3 sp, 4 d c, 1 sp,
7 d c, 3 sp.

14th row—Ch 5, 2 sp, 4 d c, 3 sp, 4 d c, 7 sp, 4 d c, 3 sp, 4 d c, 2 sp.

15th row—Ch 5, 2 sp, 4 d c, 2 sp, 4 d c, 6 sp, 4 d c, 2 sp, 4 d c, 2 sp,
4 d c, 2 sp.

16th row—Ch 5, 3 sp, 7 d c, 2 sp, 4 d c, 1 sp, 4 d c, 2 sp, 4 d c, 3 sp,
7 d c, 3 sp.

17th row—Ch 5, 2 sp, 4 d c, 4 sp, 4 d c, 1 sp, 4 d c, 2 sp, 4 d c, 5 sp,
4 d c, 2 sp.

18th row—Ch 5, 2 sp, 4 d c, 1 sp, 7 d c, 6 sp, 4 d c, 2 sp, 7 d c, 1 sp,
4 d c, 2 sp.

19th row—Same as row 9.

20th row—Same as row 10.

21st row—Same as row 11.

22nd row—Same as row 12.

23rd row—Same as row 13.

24th row—Same as row 14.

25th row—Ch 5, 2 sp, 4 d c, 2 sp, 4 d c, 2 sp, 4 d c, 6 sp, 4 d c, 2 sp,
4 d c, 2 sp.

26th row—Ch 5. 3 sp, 7 d c, 3 sp, 4 d c, 2 sp, 4 d c, 1 sp, 4 d c, 2 sp,
4 d c, 3 sp.

27th row—Ch 5, 2 sp, 4 d c, 5 sp, 4 d c, 2 sp, 4 d c, 1 sp. 4 d c, 4 sp,
4 d c, 2 sp.

28th row—Ch 5, 2 sp, 4 d c, 1 sp, 7 d c, 2 sp, 4 d c, 6 sp, 7 d c, 1 sp,
4 d c, 2 sp.

29th row—Ch 5, 2 sp, 4 d c, 3 sp, 1 d c, 3 sp, 4 d c, 3 sp, 4 d c, 3 sp,
4 d c, 2 sp.

30th row—Ch 5, 3 sp, 4 d c, 2 sp, 4 d c, 2 sp, 10 d c, 2 sp, 4 d c, 2
sp, 4 d c, 3 sp.

31st row—Ch 5, 4 sp, 7 d c, 2 sp, 7 d c, 1 sp, 7 d c, 2 sp, 7 d c, 4 sp.

32nd row—Ch 5, 6 sp, 4 d c, 2 sp, 10 d c, 2 sp, 4 d c, 6 sp.

33rd row—Ch 5, 3 sp, 7 d c, 1 sp, 4 d c, 3 sp, 4 d c, 3 sp, 4 d c, 1 sp,
7 d c, 3 sp.

34th row—Ch 5, 2 sp, 4 d c, 3 sp, 4 d c, 7 sp, 4 d c, 3 sp, 4 d c, 2 sp.

35th row—Ch 5, 2 sp, 4 d c, 2 sp, 4 d c, 2 sp, 4 d c, 6 sp, 4 d c, 2 sp,
4 d c.

36th row—Ch 5, 3 sp, 7 d c, 3 sp, 4 d c, 2 sp, 4 d c, 1 sp, 4 d c, 2 sp,
7 d c, 3 sp.

37th row—Ch 5, 2 sp, 4 d c, 5 sp, 4 d c, 2 sp, 4 d c, 1 sp, 4 d c, 4 sp,
4 d c, 2 sp.

38th row—Ch 5, 2 sp, 4 d c, 1 sp, 7 d c, 2 sp, 4 d c, 6 sp, 7 d c, 1 sp,
4 d c, 2 sp.

39th row—Ch 5, 21 sp.

Finish with same edging as chair back.


                         NO. 6544—FLOWER BASKET

MATERIAL—Dexter Cotton Warp. Art. 380, 1 tube natural 100. Crochet Hook
No. 8.

Begin basket at center of solid piece at base—ch 4, join, 6 s c in ring,
join with sl st. Continue working until there are 10 rows of s c,
increasing by adding an extra s c in each row as needed to keep work
flat until piece measures 3 in. across and begin lace edge.

Row 1—Ch 3, 1 d c in each of 1st 3 s c, ch 2, skip 2, * 1 d c in each 4
s c, ch 2, skip 2, repeat around, join.

Row 2—Ch 3, * d c in last d c of group, 2 d c over 2 ch, d c over 1st d
c of next group, ch 2, repeat from * around.

Row 3—S c over 1st 2 ch, * ch 2, over next 2 ch, make 1 tr, ch 3, and
fasten in for picot. Repeat tr and picot alternately until 6 tr have
been made in same space, ch 2, s c over next 2 ch and repeat from *
around. Fasten. This completes base of basket.

Handle—Make a chain 14 in. long, 1 s c in each st of chain, turn and
work back across row in s c.

3rd row—Ch 3, 3 d c in each 3 s c, * ch 2, skip 2, 4 d c in 4 s c,
repeat from star across handle.

4th and 5th rows—S c as on other edge. Work 1 row of picot on each side
of handle.

Attach warp to last row of s c in solid part of basket base and work
evenly 14 rows of s c. This brings height of basket to 2 inches. Ch 3, 3
d c in each of 3 s c, * ch 3, skip 3, 4 d c in each of 4 s c, repeat
around. Next row ch 3, 2 d c in space below, 1 d c in d c below, * ch 3,
1 d c in 1st d c below, 2 d c in space, 1 d c in last d c below, repeat
from star around row and repeat this row 4 times. The next row is worked
the same but increase in each space by making ch 5 instead of 3. Next
row, ch 3, 3 d c in space, ch 2, 1 d c in 1st d c of group below, ch 2,
skip 2, 1 d c in 3rd d c below, * ch 3, 1 d c in last d c of group
below, 3 d c in space, ch 2, 1 d c in 1st d c of row below, ch 2, skip 1
d c, 1 d c in d c below, repeat around row. This last row increases
basket for top flare. Next row—ch 3, 3 d c in space, * ch 2, 4 d c in
space below, repeat around working 1 group of 4 d c with ch 2 between in
each space of previous row. Repeat this row 4 times and finish edge as
in base beginning with row 3 of edging instruction.

Make a very thick cooked starch, rub well into basket, place a glass or
can in basket to shape, spread and pull base until flat and as basket
dries stretch the top as much as possible in one direction to give width
and flare to basket.

Let handle dry flat then sew to sides of basket across narrow width and
down on sides of basket about 1½ inches. Use a glass in basket for
flower container.


                         NO. 6542—BATHROOM RUG
                           NO. 6543—LID COVER

MATERIAL—Dexter Cotton Warp, Art. 380. 3 tubes deep blue No. 210, 2
tubes each light delft blue No. 281, and natural No. 100. Crochet Hook
No. 4.

Rug size 27×40.

Lid Cover—Standard Size.

Rug—Using 3 strands of warp, one dark blue, one delft and one natural,
make a chain 17 inches long, 9 d c in 3rd st from hook, 1 d c in each st
of ch, 9 d c in last st, turn. 1 d c in each st on this side, join.

2nd row. Ch 3, 2 d c in 1st d c of row below, 3 d c in 3rd d c, repeat
around row. Add 2 groups of 3 d c each at both ends of work to keep rug
flat. Spread rug on floor after each row to see that sufficient increase
has been made, if there is a tendency to curl at edge add 1 more group
of 3 d c at each end in next row around.

When rug measures 15 inches in width break cream warp and replace with
delft blue and work one row, next row use 2 strands deep blue and one of
delft blue. Next row use 3 strands of deep blue then 1 row—all three
strand cream color, next row all delft blue, next row all deep
blue—repeat 1 row each cream, delft blue and deep blue and finish edge
in deep blue as follows: Ch 3, 1 s c in same st, 1 s c in 2nd st, 1 s c
in 2nd st, ch 3, 1 s c in same st, repeat around.

2nd row of edge—4 s c in each loop, 1 s c in s c of row below, repeat
around and fasten warp.

                            Lid cover—6543.

Using 3 strand of warp one in each color as for rug, ch 15, 1 d c in 3rd
st from hook, 1 d c in same st, skip 2 sts, 3 d c in the 3rd st, repeat
across chain making 5 groups, turn.

Rows 2 and 3—the same as row 1.

Row 4—1 group, 1 d c between groups of row below, 3 groups, 1 d c
between last 2 groups below, 1 group.

Row 5—1 gr—2 d c in d c below, 3 groups, 2 d c in d c below, 1 group.

Row 6—1 gr—3 d c in 2 d c below, 3 groups, 3 d c in 2 d c below, 1
group.

Row 7—7 groups.

Row 8—1 group, 2 d c in next group, 3 groups, 2 d c in gr, 1 group.

Row 9. Ch 3, skip 1 group, 2 d c in 2 d c, 3 groups, 2 d c in 2 d c,
skip 1 gr, 1 d c in last st of group below.

Row 10. Ch 3, skip 2 d c, 3 groups, skip 2 d c, 1 d c in last st of
shell in row below. Now use three strands of deep blue, work groups all
around center section and add 1 gr at each corner and 1 gr at the top of
work, complete row and repeat in deep blue, now use 3 strands of cream
color for 1 row, change to delft blue for next row, then row of deep
blue. Repeat one row each of cream and delft blue and then 3 rows of
deep blue. Finish edge in deep blue as follows—ch 3, s c in 3rd st,
repeat around entire piece of work. Make a chain of deep blue about 54
in. long, draw through edge of cover from one side at top to the other
leaving about 6 in. at each side. To adjust to lid draw this string
tightly under edge of lid cover and tie securely in place.


                           NO. 6540—CHAIR SET

In a sailing ship design in filet.

MATERIAL—Dexter Cotton Warp, Art. 380. 1 tube natural color 100. Crochet
Hook No. 5.

Chair Back size 12×14 inches.

Arm rests size 8×12 inches.

Chair Back—Ch 140, 1 tr c in 11th st from hook * ch 2, skip 2 ch, 1 tr c
in next ch, repeat across row making 45 spaces.

2nd row—Ch 7, * 1 tr c over tr c, 2 tr c over ch 2, 1 tr c over tr c.
This forms 1 space and 1 mesh; repeat from star across row to within
last 3 spaces ending with 2 meshes and 1 sp, ch 7, turn and follow
design chart.

Arm Rest—Ch 90 and follow directions for chair back working 27 mesh on
chain, ch 7, turn and follow design chart.

Repeat for second arm rest.

Edging—2 s c in each space, 1 s c in each d c making a picot of ch 3
every 8th st. Work edging around all three pieces.


                           NO. 6529—CURTAINS

    [Illustration: uncaptioned]

Virile is the word for these crocheted curtains with their ultra-modern
horizontal stripes and rugged coarse mesh. Virile—rugged—vigorous, yet
lovely—giving a striking touch of distinction to the solarium, or dining
or living room. So easy to make—yet when you have finished you’ll marvel
at their gay and enlivening effect.

                         Instructions on page 9




                          Transcriber’s Notes


—Silently corrected a few typos or palpable errors, but left some
  palpable errors because the correct text was not obvious.

—Retained publication information from the printed edition: this eBook
  is public-domain in the country of publication.

—In the text versions only, text in italics is delimited by
  _underscores_.

—Deleted the following line, which seemed to be a duplicate, leaving a
  {note} in its place.

—ch 10 and fasten with s c into 5th ch of 2nd loop in 17th row.



*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK ART AND PLEASURE: "PAINTING
WITH NEEDLES" ***

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the
United States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away--you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you will have to check the laws of the country where
  you are located before using this eBook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that:

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation's website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without
widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
